When we meditate, there is always a teaching said. As I said before, we meditate. When we meditate,
we start with the, as I said, the devotions, and the poor renounce of the thought of portraying
them with the mind, and then, if we have time, do those who want to pray or call on our Father, and
then both each other.
The body jata is very important. The body jata has generally two, two body jatas. The relative to
the body jata and the absolute to the body jata. Both are not really separated. Both are the same.
What is the absolute body jata? Absolute body jata is Dzogchen practices. Dzogchen meditation is
the absolute body jata.
That's why, many times, the great vast KJ number said, many times, that's why Dzogchen teachings
are also named as body jata teachings. Body jata teachings. It is a body jata.
And what is relative to body jata? From that absolute truth arising, the relative to the body jata.
Relative to body jata is then kindness compared to all sentient beings, for all living beings,
everyone, everyone, to all, without any discrimination, and let to be benefited, let to be helped,
let to be kind, kind to everyone's.
And also we like to have some reasons why we like to, why we like to be kind and compare to all
sentient beings. According to Buddhism, every single living being is being our parents.
And we talk the birth in this universe, or in the six realms, countless times. We have no numbers.
For that reason, the great Master Dzogchen has said in a letter to his friends.
Even this whole earth, we file as clay, clay, and this earth, clay, of the whole earth, we make the
fill size of the juniper fruit. Juniper fruit, we make that size and say, this is my parent, this
is my parent.
Everyone really started making the size of that clay, a size of the juniper fruit, and the size of
that is right counting our parents, how many child's parents?
Great Master Dzogchen has said, "Earth is not enough. We don't have enough earth to make the fill,
to count all our parents' names, numbers."
That minute, we talk the birth in this universe.
You read that when we talk the birth, there are four different ways to talk the birth, as in a
teaching set. Egg birth, Monster birth, and One birth, and America's birth. Those are the four
different ways.
Except the American birth, or the Monster birth, or the Master is also sometimes said it could be a
hub and a hub, but most of the time, we talk the parents.
Parents, we need parents, parents. So therefore, parents are, for that reason, all sentences have
been, once upon a time, our parents have described our parents.
Why parents are kindnesses? That we should ask to ourselves, those who have the children, those who
are parents, and currently they hold the title of parents.
If they have the children, how much are you concerned to them? How much do they think you think
that?
Time they consider it, and time they grow bored of it, then how much are you concerned?
Those who don't have the children, of course, definitely. But those who don't have the children,
that same concern, same thought, paid to us when our parents are bringing up ourselves.
Same thing, they did. And that's what, they're all kind. Why is the kind in the Buddha teaching,
there is two-way kindnesses, two kindnesses, if we highlight that.
Kindness in the samsara level, kindness if we are practicing in dharma levels, two kindnesses.
In samsara level, they have, if we highlight, they did four kindness activities, four principal
kindness activities.
First, they provide us this body. That's the first kindness.
Second, the kindnesses, they give us life. Life. And third, kindness, they provide necessary things
to us.
And fourth, they showed us world. World. Or they told us world. So four kindnesses.
They provide, as both of you highlight that, provide first kindness. They give the birth, this life
.
They conceive it. Kept that. Where they concept it, ourself, in their wombs or concept, how much
parents are happy.
Oh, now some of this concept, something is going to come out.
They feel, they call the triggers. And talking of that, taking care of that. And particularly
mother, taking care of that.
In the teachings, mother's nourishing her own nutrition going, feeding to us to bring growth.
And she provided her night's sleep during the daytime rest, thinking of her concept of babies,
babies.
And carried ourselves for ten months or nine months. That long, with joy, with happiness, something
is coming.
That, that. And then we are born. We are born brilliant.
So he provided, parents provided us this, this body, body, body. Where we are born, how we are, how
we are.
We are completely in cover with anything. We are, we can say, well, if it's life, it's not really
active life.
If it's dead, crying, not dead, crying, crying.
What we can tell, what we can tell, what we can do, except crying, crying.
That time, a parent throw out. We are gone. We are completely helpless.
But they held up their two palms with great love, great joy, great appreciation.
Holding their hand and give us life. They didn't let us to die there.
Give us this breath continually and great. That is known as kindness of giving the lives.
And now, we have this, of course, this is just a highlight of kindness. There are so many other
things.
Now, they are growing. And they provide all necessary things, whatever we need.
They help and support. They went, went to the, what's called, kids are us, boys are us, kids are us
, boys are us.
With joy, with happy. Oh, what is good for my kids? What is that? Really?
And spending money, even the shortage of budget, all this, they are kind of buying things.
It's true. All the necessary things. And action figures, ninja turtles, ninja turtles.
All the, these are the treasure for them, for us.
They are three, not just ninja turtle, they are truly so important.
And all the people selecting, what is the surface of things, what is good things, selecting those
things.
They provided us all those necessary things. That's called kindness of providing kindness,
providing all things.
And for this, they show us all, gradually teaching, how to act, how to do, how to tell, even how to
go to the bathroom too.
What's called, port, porta? Party train. What? Party train. Yeah, party trains.
And even they show you party trains, and when the party train success, but they clap in hand.
You did so wonderful, you did so sweet. I'm not kidding, dear.
This is all known as kindness. This is all kindness.
This is not just done by only our parents, these times.
We are parents, we are doing that to our children. And our parents did that too.
All the sentient beings, parents are doing every best to their capabilities, of the best
capabilities.
That's why, in the Buddha teaching, he said, all sentient beings, all parent sentient beings, they
are so, so kindness.
Therefore, we need body to shine, love and kindness, compassion.
A cord of best cover, wishing them two good things. Really good things. Pray, doing whatever we can
do. That is.
So that is really about the samsara levels, how kindness.
And the dharmak level, without the parent, we won't have the 18 endowments.
18 endowments is the vehicle to reach enlightenment.
Without the 18 endowments, you can read those. In the words of my perfect teacher, have those. Many
of you know.
Without that, how we can have first place to start spiritual journey, spiritual practices.
Then, beside that, in the dharma level, in the dharma level, without the parent sentient beings,
how we can start six paramata practices.
Without the parent beings, we cannot practice first three paramata at all.
Though, it is incomplete paramata. Therefore, there are so many levels, parents are so kind, so
spiritual.
For that reason, in the Buddha teaching, always said, parents are important.
Our one story in the teaching said, there is one in the Buddha's time, Buddha's student.
And one young boy entered into the monastery, and the Buddha is a sangha member, and he was a very
good student.
He started, and he has really good knowledge and understanding of all three pitakasas, such as Vin
aya, Abhidhana, and all that.
And also, he maintained very beautiful moralities, too.
So, the parents are very happy, and the father is very happy.
And then, when parents become older, mother died, and the father thought, "Oh, maybe I should
become the monk, too.
My son is really well. Well, I like to become monk."
And so, he joined as a monastery, he became monks.
And now, father was a little old, old, old.
And then, in the opening of the Buddha teaching, he said, "Of course, helping to the parent is very
important."
So, then, here's a little bit sometimes, a couple of Philharmonic ladies to go to have the lunch
outside,
and also, begging, begging, and so, one time, he told his father, "Son, I think you should really
bring food to me."
He said, "You should bring food to me."
And son said, "How can lime can serve to the fox?
How can lime can serve the fox?"
So, and then father said, "Who is lime? Who is fox?"
So, his son said, "I am lime."
And because Buddha said, "Whoever has the knowledge, and keep the vows and knowledge, they are like
lions.
So, I'm the lions, and who don't have that knowledge?"
Buddha said, "They are just regular animals."
So, how can lime can serve to the fox?
So, then father said, "Wow, that is really interesting."
And a lady said, "Such a folk like father me produces such a lime like you."
That is interesting. That's interesting.
So, that debate went back and forth, kind of that, and it spread, and then, eventually, it came to
the Buddha.
The Buddha heard, and the Buddha called both of them, "Is this a true story or not?"
They said, "Yes, that's a true story. We started that. How did that happen?"
And Buddha said, "Even the son has all those qualities and all these things.
Draphenity, parents, a parent helping you is very important.
Service to parent, particularly when they need it, need it, help it.
It's marriage, always. Marriage is good. Good children."
So, that's what the story started.
And then, a lot related with that, and then, one monk, monk is a really true story.
I mean, the teachings said, "One monk, monk, in her metering, in meditating."
And while he started meditating in that places,
and suddenly, monks bring so many food in the room.
So, now, he thought, "Why should I go to the city?"
"I should eat this food. This mouse brings so many food."
So, he started using that, and not going to the city.
So, many sangha frontiers thought, "Why are you not going to eat food?"
"And food? Why don't you eat food?"
He said, "Because the mouse is bringing so many food."
But they all kind of made it. That's really interesting.
They bring, and he has enough food to eat, and all these things.
So, then, they kind of made it and asked the Buddha, "Why is this happening? Why is this happening
?"
So, Buddha said, "In ancient times, this monk was the father of that mouse."
So, mouse is repaying the kindness of the parent.
So, mouse is the child or son of daughter, whatever, is bringing, paying the repair of the parent's
kindness.
So, that's the real story.
And then, another story, even Buddha is totally enlightened.
But he went to hit heaven to repair his gratitude to his mother.
According to the teaching, the Buddha passed away.
The mother passed away seven days after Buddha's birth.
And she told the birth in the Tushit heavens.
And the Buddha went to pay that gratitude.
And that Buddha gave the teaching on a sutra of gratitude in the mother.
That sutra of the Buddha gave that.
So, this is very important.
Both each other is so important, so special.
Without the both each other, there is no enlightenment.
What is thinking of kindness, all sentences, we activate both each others.
And both each other is what?
Start with it, with it.
Wishing both each other and actualizing both each other.
Wishing both each other is for boneless, simply for boneless.
Love, boneless love, boneless compassion, boneless joy, and boneless economies.
Those are called boneless.
Okay, so I stop here today and hope we won't have a question today.
And next time we do questions and also thank you.